Welcome to overview of Git and GitHub.
In this video, you will explain what Git and GitHub are,
along with some basic terms related to get and GitHub.
You will also grasp the concept of
the version control system and
how it is related to Git and GitHub.
Git and GitHub are
popular environments among
developers and data scientists,
but you can't discuss them without
a basic understanding of version control.
A version control system lets
you track your changes to the source code.
This makes it easy for you to recover
older versions of your document if you make a mistake.
Along with this, it makes
collaboration with other team members much easier.
Here's an example to
illustrate how version controls work.
Let's say you have a shopping list and want
your roommates to confirm the things
you need and add additional items.
Without version control, you've got
a big mess to clean up before you can go shopping,
with version control you know
exactly what you need after
everyone has contributed their ideas.
Git is free and open source software
distributed under the General Public license or GNU.
Git, is a distributed version control system, or DVCS,
meaning users anywhere in the world can have
a copy of your project on their computer.
When they've made changes,
they can sync their version to
a remote server to share it with you.
Git isn't the only version control system out there but
the distributed aspect is one of the main reasons it
has become one of the most popular
version control systems available.
Version control systems are
widely used for things involving code,
but you can also version control images,
documents, and any number of file types.
Note that Git also supports branching strategies
such as feature branching
to organize and manage development.
You can use Git without
a web interface using your command lined interface
but GitHub is one of
the most popular web hosted services
for Git repositories.
Others include Git Lab, Bitbucket, and Beanstock.
There are a few basic terms that you
will need to know before you get started.
The secure shell or SSH protocol is
a method for secure remote login
from one computer to another.
A repository contains your project folders
that are set up for version control.
A fork is a copy of a repository.
A pull request is how you request that someone
review and approve your changes before they become final.
A working directory contains the files and subdirectories
on your computer that are
associated with a Git repository.
Commit is a snapshot of the project's current state at
a specific point in time
along with a description of the changes made.
A branch is a separate line of development that
allows you to work on features or fixes independently.
Merging combines changes from one branch into another,
typically merging a feature branch into the main branch.
Cloning creates a local copy of
a remote Git repository on your computer. Let's recap.
In this video, you'll learn that Git is
a versatile version control system
used for tracking changes in
code and collaborating with others on software projects.
Due to a distributed version control system,
Git enables you to revert to
the previous state or review the history of the project.
Git supports branching strategies such as
feature branching to organize and manage development.
GitHub is one of the most popular web hosted services
for Git repositories.
Basic terms associated with Git and
GitHub are SSH, protocol repository,
fork, pull request,
working directory, commit, branch, merge and clone.